This lesson we're gonna be looking at a javascript method called request animation frame and what this
is going to do is this is going to allow us to have a method that allows our browser to understand that
we've got an animation frame.
Essentially what that does is it allows you to loop through multiple times within that same function.
And the way that it works we've got an example here on the module the developer network they've got
start to equal to no.
Then we've got our element there so whatever that element is that we want to animate.
It's making a selection from the HD Himmel and then using timestamp.
So down below it initiates that function window request animation frame and we know with Windows methods
we don't need to specify window but it's always a good idea to do that anyway.
So sometimes you might see the request animation frame with the window prefects seeing it and that's
okay as well.
And in this case we are going to be using window request animation frame to request our animation frame
and what it does is it invokes the function and the function that's going to invoke is going to be over
here.
We've got it running on a timestamp.
So in this particular example it's going to be moving that element around and depending on how far this
progress is and tracking the current timestamp and the value minus start it's going to be transforming
that particular element.
So this is a really neat example and you can go ahead and you can try this out for yourself and we're
going to bring the request animation frame into our application and added into our application making
animations happen.
So setting up a brand new function and then this is the function where all the magic is going to happen.
We're going to call this play game and this is the function that we're going to request.
So with the console log in play and once we hit that start button.
So we've got the start function we want.
This is where we want to invoke the request animation frame.
So using the window object and then request animation frame while we need to do is specify what the
function is that we want to request and the function that we want to request is the play game function.
So now let's see what happens.
So we hit start and we have in play.
So it's not exactly looping quite yet.
And you see that what's happening here is that within the animation frame they're requesting that animation
frame again.
And that's what actually creates the loop of the animation.
So just as any function that we're invoking within itself it's going to constantly loop and create additional
animation frames.
So we've only got one animation frame that we're animating right now.
And now we're going to invoke that same function within itself.
And what that's going to do when we go back out here and we started we see that we've got an animation
happening.
So now we can also check to see that if the game is in play.
So let's set up a variable we'll call it player.
So this is going to be a blank object.
And once we start the game that we're going to take our player object set start to true and then in
our animation frame we're going to take our player object start and we're gonna make sure that that
is true.
So we're not going to do anything unless the game is actually started and in play and we're not going
to request any additional animations or anything unless this function is true and really at the end
of the day it's not going to make much difference because we are setting the player start to be equal
to true before we're calling the play game.
And that's why we don't see any difference quite yet.
So now that we've got that in play the next part of this is to add in that animation and make something
move.
So what we need to do is we need to create an element that we can access and we can move around our
screen.
So going into our game area this is where we want to place that particular element.
So we've got the game area object that we created earlier and we're going to use javascript to generate
our car or our vehicles.
So setting up a variable we can call it the car and document creating an element.
So in this case we're creating an element an element that we're going to create is a div and then adding
into a car to update the inner text and for now I guess it's just going to say car inside of it.
And then using that game area object we're going to append a child to it and the child that we're appending
is the car.
We're appending a child and we wait.
And currently right now we still have the class of display none being shown.
And we need to hide the start screen.
So that's the next function that we need to do as well within the start area.
So once we start the game we can get rid of the console message.
Now because we're not going to have that in use anymore.
So taking the start screen selecting class list we're going to remove a class from it and the class
that we're moving is hide and also will want to do for game area is we're going to select a class list.
And in this case we're going to add the class of height.
And actually I just got that opposite.
So we want to add height to the start screen and we want to remove hide from our game area.
So let's try that one more time.
So now we've got that element that we've created.
You can take a look at it and this is the one that we're actually going to be moving around.
So that is still yet to come in the upcoming lessons.
So show you how to do that.
How we're gonna make car that element that we created.
Move depending on the arrow keys that's still to come coming let's try out request animation frame added
into your project.
So when the game starts you've got an animation that's playing and you've got a function that's handling
all of the gameplay.